Important - filter(), map(), lambda()



Python Notes:

1. Define Argument in Python?
    An argument is nothing more than a value that has been provided to a function, which is relayed when you call it.
    
2. Define open() function in Python?
    The open() function is used to open files in our system, the filename is the
name of the file to be opened. 

    The mode indicates, how the file is going to be opened "r" for reading,
"w" for writing and "a" for a appending. 

    The open function takes two arguments, the name of the file and and the mode
for which we would like to open the file. 

    By default, when only the filename is passed, the open function opens the file
in read mode.

3. Define read() function in Python?
    The read functions contains different methods, read(),readline() and readlines()

    read()		    -   return one big string

    readline()	    -   return one line at a time

    readlines()     -   returns a list of lines

4. Define write() function in Python?
    This method writes a sequence of strings to the file.

    write()	        -   Used to write a fixed sequence of characters to a file

    writelines()	-   writelines can write a list of strings.

5. Define append() function in Python?
    The append function is used to append to the file instead of overwriting it.

    To append to an existing file, simply open the file in append mode ("a"):

6. Define close() function in Python?
    When you’re done with a file, use close() to close it and free up any system resources taken up by the open file
    
7. Define super() function in Python?


                                    Exception Handling in Python
8. What is an Exception?
    An exception is an error that happens during execution of a program. When that
error occurs, Python generate an exception that can be handled, which avoids your
program to crash.

9. Why use Exceptions?
    Exceptions are convenient in many ways for handling errors and special conditions
in a program. When you think that you have a code which can produce an error then
you can use exception handling.

10. How to Raising an Exception?
    You can raise an exception in your own program by using the raise exception
statement.

    Raising an exception breaks current code execution and returns the exception
back until it is handled.

11. List different types of Exception Errors?
    IOError - If the file cannot be opened.

    ImportError - If python cannot find the module

    ValueError - Raised when a built-in operation or function receives an argument that has the right type but an inappropriate value

    KeyboardInterrupt - Raised when the user hits the interrupt key (normally Control-C or Delete)

    EOFError - Raised when one of the built-in functions (input() or raw_input()) hits an end-of-file condition (EOF) without reading any data

12. How to set up exception handling blocks?
    To use exception handling in Python, you first need to have a catch-all except clause. 

    The words "try" and "except" are Python keywords and are used to catch exceptions.

    try-except [exception-name] (see above for examples) blocks

    The code within the try clause will be executed statement by statement.

    If an exception occurs, the rest of the try block will be skipped and the except clause will be executed.
    
    Syntax:
        try:
            some statements here
        except:
            exception handling
    Example:
        try:
            print 1/0

        except ZeroDivisionError:
            print "You can't divide by zero, you're silly."

13. How does the "Exception Handling" works?
        The error handling is done through the use of exceptions that are caught in try blocks and handled in except blocks. If an error is encountered, a try block code execution is stopped and transferred down to the except block. 

    In addition to using an except block after the try block, you can also use the finally block. 

    The code in the finally block will be executed regardless of whether an exception occurs.

14. Explain about "Try ... except ... else clause"?
    The else clause in a try , except statement must follow all except clauses, and is useful for code that must be executed if the try clause does not raise an exception.

    Syntax:
        try:
            data = something_that_can_go_wrong

        except IOError:
            handle_the_exception_error

        else:
            doing_different_exception_handling
            
15. Explain about "Try ... finally" clause

    The finally clause is optional. It is intended to define clean-up actions that must be executed under all circumstances

    A finally clause is always executed before leaving the try statement, whether an exception has occurred or not.

    Syntax:
        try:
            raise KeyboardInterrupt
        finally:
            print 'Goodbye, world!'

Note:
Remember that if you don't specify an exception type on the except line, it will
catch all exceptions, which is a bad idea, since it means your program will ignore
unexpected errors as well as ones which the except block is actually prepared to
handle.
